# Machin-Learning-for-FED-Rates

This project is part of the course Machine learning for portfolio management and trading dispensed by Sylvain Champonnois (CFM) at ENSAE Paris.

The aim of this work is to create a Machin Learning model for rates predictions. We've computed a light GBM and a Random Forest each in separated branchs of the repository but using the same input made avaible in the project.

In the main branch of the project, we first introduced different methods for rate prediction, such as the linear model and the Taylor Rule. The latter has proven to be a good predictor for rates, but its main drawback lies in the fact that there have been many improvements to the 'classic' Taylor Rule. As shown in Reevaluating the Taylor Rule with Machine Learning, 2021 (9), it can be enhanced with machine learning (ML). The Federal Reserve (FED) itself has proposed several other indicators to adapt the Taylor Rule to the latest economic paradigms (FED website for monetary policy (5)) and states: "Fed policymakers consult, but do not mechanically follow, policy rules." Therefore, new methods must be adopted if we aim to create a time-invariant solution for rate predictions.
The second part of this work focuses on the implementation of a LightGBM model (and a Random Forest model in the corresponding notebook) using the monthly FRED database for rate predictions. While some variables are much more explanatory than others, the use of such models with restrictive hyperparameters allows us to compute fairly accurate estimations without overfitting. This model is able to outperform the Taylor Rule and the balanced approach during the period 2010-2018 (the test period for the model), though it does not surpass the most advanced criteria (Inertial and First Difference).

To go further, I would recommend developing a second text-based approach using NLP techniques to process the FED’s decision papers. One could also incorporate sentiment analysis from major market participants, for instance, by analyzing tweets. If interested, I have worked on a project scraping Twitter data using the API: Binance_trade_automatization (10). I've also made avaible a scrapping function for yfinance data since in the main project I've use the 13 week bonds Index (Tickers ^IRX) as a tradable asset and created several trading strategies using the predictions (this last part will be avaible soon). 
